Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. It is a way to store multiple values in a same object.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.Insertion, deletion,traversal searching and sorting.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.Data sciences, Machine learning, Databases and graphics.

what is an Array?
A. Is an object that contains multiple values.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.array is static and is a fixed-length, ArrayList is dynamic and is a variable-length.


what is LinkedList?
A.A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are linked using pointers.


How is an ArrayList different from LinkedList?
A.Arraylist is storing the value in a block and linkedlist stores the value in nodes. linkedlist is easier and faster.


what is queue?
A.Is a linear data structure.It Is a collection of ordered elements in a FIFO order.


what is stack?
A.Is a linear data structure that is used to store collection of objects.it is a collection that follows a LIFO order


what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO is First In First Out
  LIFO is Last In First Out


what is the order of complexity?
A.Order of complexity is a measure of how long an algorithm would take to complete given an input of size n.
  Assuming the input  of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.The map is always the best because it is easy to retrieve.


what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.Is searching elements one by one until the element is found.


what is tree in data structure?
A.A tree is non-linear and a hierarchical data structure consisting of a collection of nodes such that each node of the tree stores a value.


what is graph in data structure?
A.Graph is a non linear data structure and it is a presentation of nodes lined together without specific order.


what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.HashTable is synchronized and HashMap is not synchronized


What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A RDBMS uses Array,
Network data model uses Graph,
Hierarchical data model uses Tree.


How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap works in (Key, Value).


What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.is an error and it occurs whenever we try to retrieve an element with an index that is out of the array holder.


What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.Arrays.copy, System.clone, manually.


What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type, a linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts.


What is DFS and BFS?
A.DFS: Depth-first search (DFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures.
  BFS: Breadth-first search is an algorithm for searching a tree data structure for a node that satisfies a given property.


What is Recursion?
A.is whenever a method calls itself.


What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.Linear arte: array, stack, Queue, LinkedList,
  Non Linear are: Graph and Tree.


What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.
  big O notation is used to classify algorithms according to how their run time or space requirements grow as the input size grows.


Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.Insertion sorting: Insertion sort is a simple sorting algorithm.
  The array is virtually split into a sorted and an unsorted part. Values from the unsorted part are picked and placed at the correct position in the sorted part.
  Selection sorting: is selecting the smallest value and take it to the index.
  Bubble sorting : is getting two indexes and cheks if the right index is less than the left one and swaps the values
  bucket sorting: is puting the values is different buckets (for emeple from 0-5 in a bucket anf 6-10 in an another 11-15 in an another and so on),
                   sorting the values in each bucket and at the end  gathering the values
  merge sorting: the list of values wil splitt and then checks 2 values and always take the smallest an reorder the values.
  heap sorting:Heap sort is a comparison-based sorting technique,we first find the minimum element and place the minimum element at the beginning.
          We repeat the same process for the remaining elements.
  quick sorting:QuickSort is a Divide and Conquer algorithm. It picks an element as pivot and partitions the given array around the picked pivot.
                There are many different versions of quickSort that pick pivot in different ways.



Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


